=head1 NAME

SDF2TABLE - generate parse tables from SDF2 language definitions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<sdf2table> [-B<bh>] [-B<i> I<file>] [-B<l>] [-B<m> I<name>] [-B<n>] [-B<o> I<file>] [-B<tvVx>] file0 ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<sdf2table> parses SDF2 syntax definitions, normalizes them to Kernel
SDF2, and constructs the corresponding parse table.

A number of options can be supplied; these are as follows:

=over 4

=item B<-b>

Write term output in BAF (Binary ATerm) format. This is the default.

=item -B<h>

Displays concise usage information.

=item -B<i> I<file>

Read input from F<file>; by default, input is either read from stdin,
or from the named files supplied as arguments.

=item -B<l>

Displays statistic information.

=item -B<m> I<name>

Use F<name> as top module when generating a parse table.

=item -B<n>

Generated only normalized grammar.

=item -B<o> I<file>

Write output to F<file>.  By default, output is written to file with a
name derived from the name of the input file for named files, and to
standard output on input from standard input.

=item B<-t>

Write term output in plain text format.

=item B<-v>

Operate in verbose mode.

=item B<-V>

Returns the current version number. 

=back

=head1 USAGE

=head1 EXAMPLES

    $ sdf2table test.sdf

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<sglr>, L<ParseTable-Generator>

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head1 NOTES

Expected input for sdf2table is a full, flattened SDF2 specification in
a single file.  In such a file, all modules for the language defined
are present; each module is identified by "module <ModuleName>", and
at the top the keyword "definition" identifies the consecutive list
of modules as a full SDF2 specification.

The normalizer expects a top-level module to be present by the name of
"Main".  Failure to include such a module will yield the parse table
for the empty grammar.

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark van den Brand <S<Mark.van.den.Brand@cwi.nl>>
