=head1 NAME

TRAVERSALS - Generates productions for traversal functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<traversals> [-B<bh>] [-B<i> I<file>] [-B<o> I<file>] [-B<tvV>] file0 ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<traversals> Finds all productions in an (AsFix1) SDF2 syntax definition that have a traverse attribute. Then generates productions for all reachable sorts from the first argument of such production. 

A number of options can be supplied; these are as follows:

=over 4

=item B<-b>

Write term output in BAF (Binary ATerm) format. This is the default.

=item -B<h>

Displays concise usage information.

=item -B<i> I<file>

Read input from F<file>; by default, input is either read from stdin,
or from the named files supplied as arguments.

=item -B<o> I<file>

Write output to F<file>.  By default, output is written to file with a
name derived from the name of the input file for named files, and to
standard output on input from standard input.

=item B<-t>

Write term output in plain text format.

=item B<-v>

Operate in verbose mode.

=item B[-V]

Returns the current version number.

=back

=head1 USAGE

=head1 EXAMPLES

    $ removevarsyntax -i Booleans.sdf.asfix1 -o Booleans.sdf.var.asfix1

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<sdf2table>, L<sglr>, L<addeqssyntax>

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head1 NOTES

Expected input for traversals is a full, flattened, parsed SDF2 
specification in a single AsFix1-file.  In such a file, all modules 
for the language defined are present; each module is identified 
by "module <ModuleName>", and at the top the keyword "definition" 
identifies the consecutive list of modules as a full SDF2 specification.

=head1 AUTHOR

Jurgen Vinju <S<Jurgen.Vinju@cwi.nl>>
