=head1 NAME

META - an interactive environment to develop ASF+SDF specifications

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<meta> [-B<c> I<directory>] [-B<C> I<file>] [-B<dh>] [-B<T> I<port>] [-B<vV>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<meta> is an interactive environment for the development of ASF+SDF
specifications. It offers syntax directed editors for ASF+SDF
specifications, an interpreter, a compiler to generated C code,
parser, parse table generator, and a user-interface which visualizes
the modular structure of a specification. All these components are
connected to a software coordination architecture (ToolBus).

A number of options can be supplied; these are as follows:

=over 4

=item B<-c> I<directory> 
This directory is used by the ASF+SDF2C compiler, the generated 
auxiliary AsFix files and C files are written in this directory
as well as the Makefiles. 

=item B<-C> I<file>
This file contains configuration information like search paths.
If your configuration file is named I<meta.conf> it is not necessary
to pass it explicitly.

=item -d

Run the Meta-Environment in debug mode, the ToolBus viewer.

=item -B<h>

Displays concise usage information.

=item -B<T> I<port>

Specifies B<TB_PORT> for the ToolBus.

=item B<-v>

Operate in verbose mode.

=item B[-V]

Displays the current version number. 

=back

=head1 USAGE

=head1 EXAMPLES

    $ meta -c c-source

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<sglr>, L<sdf2table>, L<graph-browser>

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head1 NOTES

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark van den Brand S<<Mark.van.den.Brand@cwi.nl>>
