=head1 NAME

ADDEQSSYNTAX - Adds the "equation" syntax to an SDF definition

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<addeqssyntax> [-B<h>] [-B<m> I<module>] [-B<i> I<file>] [-B<o> I<file>] [-B<vV>] file0 ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<addeqssyntax> adds to a parsed (AsFix1) SDF2 syntax definition the "equation" syntax.

A number of options can be supplied; these are as follows:

=over 4

=item -B<h>

Displays concise usage information.

=item -B<m> I<module>

Indicates the topmodule for this specification.

=item -B<i> I<file>

Read input from F<file>; by default, input is either read from stdin,
or from the named files supplied as arguments.

=item -B<o> I<file>

Write output to F<file>.  By default, output is written to file with a
name derived from the name of the input file for named files, and to
standard output on input from standard input.

=item B<-v>

Operate in verbose mode.

=item B[-V]

Returns the current version number.

=back

=head1 USAGE

=head1 EXAMPLES

    $ addeqssyntax -i Booleans.sdf.asfix1 -o Booleans.sdf.eqs.asfix1

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<sdf2table>, L<sglr>, L<removevarsyntax>

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head1 NOTES

Expected input for addeqssyntax is a full, flattened, parsed SDF2 
specification in a single AsFix1-file.  In such a file, all modules 
for the language defined are present; each module is identified 
by "module <ModuleName>", and at the top the keyword "definition" 
identifies the consecutive list of modules as a full SDF2 specification.

For each sort definition context-free grammar rules for I<Equation> and
I<Condition> is generated together with the general context-free grammar
rules for I<CondEquation> and the I<Tag>.  Furthermore, the context-free 
grammmar rules for lexical constructor functions are also generated. 
Finally, the variables are attribute with the attribute "prefer". 

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark van den Brand <S<Mark.van.den.Brand@cwi.nl>>
