=head1 NAME

PARSE-SDF2 - parse sdf2 definitions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<parse-sdf2> [-B<2bdh>] [-B<i> I<file>] [-B<lmn>] [-B<o> I<file>] [-B<tvVx>] file0 ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Parse SDF2 syntax, generating various output formats.

A number of options can be supplied; these are as follows:

=over 4

=item B<-2>

Generate AsFix2 output term.  This is the default.

=item B<-b>

Write term output in BAF (Binary AsFix) format. This is the default.

=item B<-d>

Run in debug mode.

=item -B<h>

Displays concise usage information.

=item -B<i> I<file>

Read input from F<file>; by default, input is either read from stdin,
or from the named files supplied as arguments.

=item B<-l>

Collect some run-time statistics.

=item B<-m>

Generate AsFix2ME output term.

=item B<-n>

Do not generate output (check syntactic validity).

=item -B<o> I<file>

Write output to F<file>.  By default, output is written to file with a
name derived from the name of the input file for named files, and to
standard output on input from standard input.

=item B<-t>

Write term output in plain text format.

=item B<-v>

Operate in verbose mode.

=item B<-V>

Show program version.

=item B<-x>

Exclude lexical information from dot output.

=back

=head1 USAGE

=head1 EXAMPLES

    $ parse-sdf2 test.sdf
    $ parse-sdf2 -1 test.sdf -o test.asfix1

=head1 EXIT STATUS

A failure is returned on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<sglr>, L<tree2dot>

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head1 NOTES

Note that not every parse result (i.e. parse forest) can be represented
in AsFix1.  In principle, SDF2 is free of ambiguity; however, fragmented
SDF2 may still give rise to ambiguity.

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark van den Brand <S<Mark.van.den.Brand@cwi.nl>>
